# Sunday, 26-10-2025
### This log is meant as a way to log the problems that has came up, and my thoughts on the current problems.

Quick update on the current progress

The printer has been built, and is running, though there are some hiccups along the way.
A comprehensive list of BOM could already be made, but I will do that later after a redesign on the current Pias design.

The current plan is to start redesigning starting from the extruder unit, and move to the other parts from there.
I plan to keep the semi-organic-ish design (rarely hard edges), on most of the parts and improve parts that still have a lot of sharp edges.

The thing that I wanted to highlight on this redesign is that in the current rendition of the extruder unit is lackluster.
From the assembly process, and other issues like the management of the GT2 Belt and cables. The process is convoluted, and very tedious to do.
Especially if the goal is to assemble it flush, and close to no wobble.

The glaring issue is that the four contact point of the extruder units is in a weird place, that could be remedied quite easily.

The current plan is to make make the main extruder units (Hotend, Fans, and whatnot) to be separate from the extruder's carriage.
Meaning the main extruder and it's carriage would be separated to two different object if the four contact points were to be taken off.

### What do you even mean by that?

The current main extruder unit is built into three parts, Face, Front, and Back.  

**Face** is the biggest part, including the duct, and the place where the fans will be held.  
**Front** is the first half of the hotend holder, that is closer to the face part.  
**Back** is the second half of the hotend holder, that is closer to the extruder carriage.  

The assembly process for the whole thing is as such:  

1. Prepare the GT2 Belt, and all the cables from the 3 fans, hotend, and klicky.
2. Put the hotend in the Front and Back parts, while managing the belt and cables.
3. Put the assembled FB (Front - Back) unit, and screw the mounting points to the extruder carriage  
   again, mind the cable and belts.
4. If the cable and the belt are managed correctly, the FB unit should be flush with the carriage, if not. Then the belt or cable could be in between.
5. After the FB unit is correctly installed, then continue to prepare the addition of the Face unit.

The list doesn't really do the complexity justice, because the fans has to be placed in advance in the Face unit,
and the cables must have enough slack to not destroy the connection on the fans itself, but not too much so that the fans (especially the part cooling)
would not be tight in the fan places.

All this would make the face part dangle while you have to adjust the position of the GT2 Belt and still having to cable manage so that everything is in the correct place. _yikes_

Then the thought of writing what is wrong with the current edition came up.  
The main thing that I want to fix first is to do separate the two assembly, and then proceed to do a refinement on duct design, and some optimizing on the XY Carriage.


